In this lesson, you will learn how to apply a breakpoints in Visual Studio code.
First thing I want you to do is from your spring boot to boot camp resources.
Go to appendix A and open the breakpoints folder.
Okay.
I was already inside.
And the first thing I want you to do is apply your first breakpoint.
Doing it in vs code is very easy.
Just left click beside the line of code that you want to breakpoint.
And what I'll do before running the application and debug mode is add another print statement and this
print statement is just going to print the receipt.
I'll add another breakpoint here and if you want to run your application in debug mode, either press
on debug or click on the following option.
Run in debug and click run and Debug.
And this is how you're going to be break pointing your spring boot applications, by the way.
Anyways, the first thing I want to talk to you about is the continue button continue goes from one
breakpoint to another.
So if I press continue, it goes to the next breakpoint and it runs this line of code.
Now, here is where you monitor the state of your variables.
After we ran this line of code, our receipt was updated to equal.
The total is $5.
And if I press continue again, there are no more breakpoints that follow.
So their runtime is going to finish and it will print your message.
Okay.
Let's debug the application again.
Now.
This time I want to know exactly what happens inside of our get receipt function.
I don't want to just step to the next breakpoint.
I want to step inside, get a receipt, and luckily we have a step into button which you can press.
And what that's going to do is step inside the function.
Here I can see the state of my variables, the price one and price two parameters equal 2.5.
You can also see this by going off to the side anyways.
I can keep stepping inside my function.
Now the message equals a string and now if I press step inside again, it's going to step into the sum
function.
Once again, we can monitor the state of our variables.
Price one and price two are still 2.5.
This is going to return price one plus price to.
The return value is five.
And then if I keep stepping inside, my function total is going to equal the return value.
Having ran this line of code, now total equals five and our function is going to return the message
plus the total value which will result.
And one thing I want to point out is if you press the step inside button right as you're about to return
something in your function, it's going to step into some weird stuff.
So step out of it using the step out button.
Step out again and we're back.
Once you reach the return keyword press, step over.
All right.
Our function returns the following string.
If I press continue.
Receipt ends up equaling the value that was returned.
If I press continue again, it prints the receipts.
All right, one more thing I want to show you, which is really important.
We'll step inside, get receipt again.
Now, I want to step inside every single line of get receipts, but I don't want to step inside of some.
If I press step into, it's going to step into some before it steps into the remaining lines.
But I don't want to do that because imagine some was millions of lines long, then this would be very
annoying.
But if I were to press continue, then all that's going to do is just go to the next breakpoint.
So we don't want to do that.
So what I'll do is I will restart the runtime.
Okay.
Let's step inside again.
We will keep stepping inside the function and once I reach this line, I can actually step over it using
the step over button.
Now total equals five based on whatever was returned from the sum function.
I will press step over again.
The function returns the total as $5.
Receipt ends up equaling this value.
And if I press continue again, that's what gets printed.
Okay.
One last thing I want to show you.
I promise.
It's the last thing.
Press on.
Run and debug.
You can also disable your breakpoints, which means if I press continue or next or anything, it will
ignore them.
Okay.
Now, let's just say you have.
10 million breakpoints inside of your app, and you don't want to individually get rid of all of them.
You can just press the following button.
And that is all.
I'll see you in the next breakpoint session.